# Class 4: 8086 Chipset
## Device Specifications
- Both are packaged in DIP (Dual In-Line Packages)
	- 8086: 16 bit microprocessor with a 16-bit data bus
	- 8088: 16 bit microprocessor with a 8-bit data bus
- Both are 5V parts (i.e. V<sub>DD</sub> is 5V)
### 8086/88 Pinout
- #### AD15-AD0 (2-16 and 39)
	- Address Data
	- Multiplexed address (ALE=1)/data bus(ALE=0)
- #### A19/S6-A16/S3 (35-39)
	- The other 4 address pins
	- Multiplexed with S pins that are special control pins
- #### M/IO (Active-low for IO, 28)
	- Indicates if address is a Memory or IO address
- #### RD (Active-low, 32)
	- When 0, data bus is driven by memory or an I/O device
	- Active-low because it can be easier to 
- #### WR (Active-low, 29)
	- Microprocessor is driving data bus to memory or an I/O device.
	- When 0, data bus contains valid data.
- #### ALE (Address Latch Enable, 25)
	- When 1, address data bus contains a memory or I/O address.
- #### DT/R (Data Transmit/Receive, Active Low for Recieve, 27)
	- Data bus is transmitting/receiving data.
- #### DEN (Data bus ENable)
	- Activates external data bus buffers
- #### INTR (18)
	- Interrupt
	- When 1, and IF=1, microprocessor prepares to service interrupt, INTA becomes active after current instruction completes
- #### INTA (Interrupt Acknowledge, Active-low, 24)
	- Generated by the microprocessor in response to INTR
	- Causes the interrupt vector to be put onto the data bus.
- #### NMI (Non-Maskable Interrupt, 17)
	- Similar to INTR except IF flag bit is not consulted and interrupt is vector 2
- #### CLK (19)
	- Clock input must have a duty cycle of 33% (high for 1/3 and low 2/3s).
- #### VCC/GND (40, 1, 20)
	- Power Supply (5V) and GND (0V)
- #### MN/MX (MiN/MaX, MaX is Active-low, 33)
	-  Select min or max mode of operation
## 8284A Clock Generator
- Clock generation
- RESET sync
- READY sync
- Peripheral clock signal
- ### Clock generation
	- Crystal is connected to and X2
	- XTAL OSC generates wave signal at crystal's freqency feeds:
		- An inverting buffer (output OSC) which used to drive the EFI input of other 8284As.
		- 2-to-1 MUX; F/C selects XTAL or EFI external input.
- 